.Dd 2018-04-17
.Dt LBTS-IMPORT 1
.\" Manual page created by:
.\" Guus Sliepen <guus@lightbts.info>
.Sh NAME
.Nm lbts import
.Nd reply to an existing ticket
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm lbts import
.Op Ar file ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Import one or messages into the LightBTS instance.
If no files are specified on the command line, then a message is read from stdin.
.Pp
Messages must be RFC2822-compliant.
Imported messages will be added to the message database and will cause the index to be updated.
Duplicate messages (any message with a Message-ID header that is the same as one that is already in the message database)
will be ignored.
.Sh EMAIL INTEGRATION
To add email support to LightBTS,
one simply has to pipe incoming emails through the
.Nm lbts import
command.
Most mail servers make it easy to feed emails to external commands.
Below are some examples for common email setups.
.Ss Dot-forward files
If one has an account on a UNIX machine that can receive incoming email,
then most likely the mail server will read the
.Pa $HOME/.forward
file if it exists.
This file can contain an email address to forward the incoming email to,
but if it starts with a pipe symbol it will instead treat the rest of the line as a command to run,
and will feed the incoming email to the standard input of that command, like so:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
|/path/to/lbts -d /path/to/instance import
.Ed
.Pp
Some emailservers allow mail to be sent to username-extension and/or username+extension,
and will look for
.Pa $HOME/.forward-extension
or
.Pa $HOME/.forward+extension
respectively.
This allows you to use a -bugs extension without having to get a new email address or create a new UNIX account.
.Ss Aliases file
Most mailservers also read the file
.Pa /etc/aliases ,
which is normally used to map email names to account names.
However, it also supports the pipe syntax, so one could add:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
lightbts: |/path/to/lbts -d /path/to/instance import
.Ed
.Pp
However, be aware that this might run the command as user nobody,
which is probably not what you want.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr lbts 1 ,
.Xr lightbts 7 .
.Sh AUTHOR
.An "Guus Sliepen" Aq guus@lightbts.info
